ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Overview Our mission is to accelerate the world’s transition to sustainable energy. We design, develop, manufacture, lease and sell high-performance fully electric vehicles, solar energy generation systems and energy storage products. We also offer maintenance, installation, operation, financial and other services related to our products. Additionally, we are increasingly focused on products and services based on artificial intelligence, robotics and automation. In 2022, we have produced 563,987 vehicles and delivered 564,743 vehicles through the second quarter, despite ongoing supply chain challenges and factory shutdowns. We are currently focused on increasing vehicle production and capacity, improving and developing battery technologies, improving our FSD capabilities, increasing the affordability and efficiency of our vehicles and expanding our global infrastructure. In 2022, we have deployed 1.98 GWh of energy storage products and 154 megawatts of solar energy systems through the second quarter. We are currently focused on ramping production of energy storage products, improving our Solar Roof installation capability and efficiency, and increasing market share of retrofit and new build solar energy systems. During the three and six months ended June 30, 2022, we recognized total revenues of $16.93 billion and $35.69 billion, respectively, representing increases of $4.98 billion and $13.34 billion, respectively, over the same periods ended June 30, 2021. We continue to ramp production, build new manufacturing capacity and expand our operations to enable increased deliveries and deployments of our products and further revenue growth. During the three and six months ended June 30, 2022, our net income attributable to common stockholders was $2.26 billion and $5.58 billion, respectively, representing favorable changes of $1.12 billion and $4.00 billion, respectively, over the same periods ended June 30, 2021. We continue to focus on improving our profitability through production and operational efficiencies. We ended the second quarter of 2022 with $18.92 billion in cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities, representing an increase of $1.21 billion from the end of 2021. Our cash flows provided by operating activities during the six month period ended June 30, 2022 was $6.35 billion, representing an increase of $2.58 billion compared to $3.77 billion during the same period ended June 30, 2021. Capital expenditures amounted to $3.50 billion during the six month period ended June 30, 2022, compared to $2.85 billion during the same period ended June 30, 2021. Sustained growth has allowed our business to generally fund itself, and we will continue investing in a number of capital-intensive projects in upcoming periods. Management Opportunities, Challenges and Risks and 2022 Outlook Impact of COVID-19 Pandemic Beginning in the first quarter of 2021, there has been a trend in many parts of the world of increasing availability and administration of vaccines against COVID-19, as well as an easing of restrictions on social, business, travel and government activities and functions. On the other hand, infection rates and regulations continue to fluctuate in various regions and there are ongoing global impacts resulting from the pandemic, including challenges and increases in costs for logistics and supply chains, such as increased port congestion, intermittent supplier delays, labor shortages and a shortfall of semiconductor supply. We have been affected by temporary manufacturing closures, employment and compensation adjustments, and impediments to administrative activities supporting our product deliveries and deployments. In addition, we have experienced and are experiencing varying levels of inflation resulting in part from various supply chain disruptions, increased shipping and transportation costs, increased raw material and labor costs and other disruptions caused by the COVID‐19 pandemic and general global economic conditions. The inflationary impact on our cost structure has contributed to adjustments in our product pricing, despite a continued focus on reducing our manufacturing costs where possible. Ultimately, we cannot predict the duration of the COVID-19 pandemic or global economic trends. We continue to monitor macroeconomic conditions to remain flexible and to optimize and evolve our business as appropriate, and attempt to optimally project demand and infrastructure requirements globally and deploy our production, workforce and other resources accordingly. 30