ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere in this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. Overview Our mission is to accelerate the world’s transition to sustainable energy. We design, develop, manufacture, lease and sell high-performance fully electric vehicles, solar energy generation systems and energy storage products. We also offer maintenance, installation, operation, financial and other services related to our products. In 2021, we have produced 180,338 vehicles and delivered 184,877 vehicles through the first quarter. We are currently focused on increasing vehicle production and capacity, improving and developing and battery technologies, increasing the affordability and efficiency of our vehicles, expanding our global infrastructure and introducing our next vehicles. In 2021, we have deployed 445 GWh of energy storage products and 92 megawatts of solar energy systems through the first quarter. We are currently focused on ramping production of energy storage products, improving our Solar Roof installation capability and efficiency and increasing market share of retrofit solar energy systems. During the three months ended March 31, 2021, we recognized total revenues of $10.39 billion, representing an increase of $4.40 billion over the three months ended March 31, 2020. We continue to ramp production, build new manufacturing capacity and expand our operations to enable increased deliveries and deployments of our products and further revenue growth. During the three months ended March 31, 2021, our net income attributable to common stockholders was $438 million, representing a favorable change of $422 million over the three months ended March 31, 2020. We continue to focus on operational efficiencies, while we have seen an acceleration of non-cash stock-based compensation expense due to a rapid increase in our market capitalization and updates to our business outlook. We ended the first quarter of 2021 with $17.14 billion in cash and cash equivalents, representing a decrease of $2.24 billion from the end of 2020. Our cash flows provided by operating activities during the three month period ended March 31, 2021 was $1.64 billion, representing a favorable change of $2.08 billion compared to our cash flows used in operating activities during the period ended March 31, 2020 of $440 million, and capital expenditures amounted to $1.35 billion during the three month period ended March 31, 2021, compared to $455 million during the same period ended March 31, 2020. Sustained growth has allowed our business to generally fund itself, but we will continue a number of capital-intensive projects in upcoming periods. Management Opportunities, Challenges and Risks Impact of COVID-19 Pandemic Beginning in the first quarter of 2021, there has been a trend in many parts of the world of increasing availability and administration of vaccines against COVID-19, as well as an easing of restrictions on social, business, travel and government activities and functions. On the other hand, infection rates and regulations continue to fluctuate in various regions and there are ongoing global impacts resulting from the pandemic, including challenges and increases in costs for logistics and supply chains, such as increased port congestion, intermittent supplier delays and a shortfall of microchip supply. We have also previously been affected by temporary manufacturing closures, employment and compensation adjustments, and impediments to administrative activities supporting our product deliveries and deployments. Ultimately, we cannot predict the duration of the COVID-19 pandemic. We will continue to monitor macroeconomic conditions to remain flexible and to optimize and evolve our business as appropriate, and we will have to accurately project demand and infrastructure requirements globally and deploy our production, workforce and other resources accordingly. 29 Automotive—Production The following is a summary of the status of production of each of our announced vehicle models in production and under development, as of the date of this Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q: Production Location Vehicle Model(s) Production Status Fremont Factory Model S / Model X Active Model 3 / Model Y Active Gigafactory Shanghai Model 3 / Model Y Active Gigafactory Berlin Model Y Constructing manufacturing facilities Gigafactory Texas Model Y Constructing manufacturing facilities Cybertruck In development TBD Tesla Semi In development Tesla Roadster In development We installed and tested the manufacturing equipment for our new versions of Model S and Model X in the first quarter of 2021 and we are in the early stages of ramping production. We are focused on ramping these models and Model Y to at least their installed production capacities. We have also worked to increase localization at Gigafactory Shanghai by introducing drive unit manufacturing and Model Y one-piece casting there. The next phase of production growth will depend on the construction of Gigafactory Berlin and Gigafactory Texas, each of which is progressing as planned for production and deliveries beginning in late 2021, and where we will also add to our available sources of battery cell supply by manufacturing our own cells that we are developing to have high-volume output, lower capital and production costs and longer range. Consistent with our approach of innovating at new factories, we expect to pioneer there the mass production of these cells and our unique structural battery pack concept. Our goals are to improve vehicle performance, decrease production costs and increase affordability. However, these plans are subject to uncertainties inherent in establishing and ramping manufacturing operations, which may be exacerbated by the number of concurrent international projects and any future impact from events outside of our control such as the COVID-19 pandemic and any industry-wide component constraints. Moreover, we must meet ambitious technological targets with our plans for battery cells as well as for iterative manufacturing and design improvements for our vehicles with each new factory. Automotive—Demand and Sales Our cost reduction efforts and additional localized procurement and manufacturing are key to our vehicles’ affordability, and for example have allowed us to competitively price our vehicles in China. In addition to opening new factories in 2021, we will also continue to generate demand and brand awareness by improving our vehicles’ performance and functionality, including Autopilot, FSD and software features, and introducing anticipated future vehicles. Moreover, we expect to benefit from ongoing electrification of the automotive sector and increasing environmental awareness. However, we operate in a cyclical industry that is sensitive to trade, environmental and political uncertainty, all of which may also be compounded by any future global impact from the COVID-19 pandemic. Moreover, as additional competitors enter the marketplace and help bring the world closer to sustainable transportation, we will have to continue to execute well to maintain our momentum. Automotive—Deliveries and Customer Infrastructure As our deliveries increase, we must work constantly to prevent our vehicle delivery capability from becoming a bottleneck on our total deliveries. Increasing the exports of vehicles manufactured at Gigafactory Shanghai has been effective in mitigating the strain on our deliveries, and we expect to benefit further from situating additional factories closer to local markets. In any case, as we expand, we will have to continue to increase and staff our delivery, servicing and charging infrastructure, maintain our vehicle reliability and optimize our Supercharger locations to ensure cost-effectiveness and customer satisfaction. In particular, we remain focused on increasing the capability and efficiency of our servicing operations. Energy Generation and Storage Demand, Production and Deployment The long-term success of this business is dependent upon increasing margins through greater volumes. We continue to increase the production of our energy storage products to meet high levels of demand. For Powerwall, better availability and growing grid stability concerns drive higher interest, and we are emphasizing cross-selling with our residential solar energy products. We remain committed to increasing our retrofit solar energy business by offering a low-cost and simplified online ordering experience. In addition, we continue to improve our installation capabilities for Solar Roof by on-boarding and training a large number of installers and reducing the installation time dramatically. As these product lines grow, we will have to maintain adequate battery cell supply for our energy storage products and hire additional personnel, particularly skilled electricians to support the ramp of Solar Roof. 30